The Big Idea/tA comprehensive, well-researched synthesis of timeless philosophies from Machiavelli toSuntzu, as applied in real-life situations by powerful figures in history such as Queen Elizabeth Iand Henry Kissinger. Absorbing and entertaining, this book lends business people a wealth ofideas on the subtle art of playing the power game, exercising clever cunning, and understandinghuman weaknesses. Whether it is in the boardroom, at a power lunch, or a cocktail party theselaws will make you master of the game and give you the edge over your rivals./t1. NEVER OUTSHINE THE MASTER./t  Transgression of the Law.Finance Minister Fouquet unintentionally outshone his master, King Louis XIV, makingthe King feel insecure by throwing a lavish party that would show off Fouquetsconnections, cultivated manner and charm. Thinking this move would make him anindispensable asset to the king, Fouquet had actually offended his master who did notlike the fact people were more charmed by his finance minister than by him. The Kingfound a convenient excuse to get rid of Fouquet.  Observance of the LawGalileo was clever in observing this law by giving glory to his patrons. In order to solvehis perennial problem of funding, he dedicated his discovery of the moons of Jupiter tothe Medicis, since the royal symbol of the Medici family was the planet Jupiter. He thencommissioned an emblem for them, with each moon representing one of the sons whorevolved around the patriarch. The Medici family became his major patron, appointinghim their official court mathematician and philosopher, thereby giving him a morecomfortable life and a steady salary.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Present your ideas in such a manner that they may be ascribed to your master,or could be viewed as an echo of your masters thoughts.  If you are more intelligent than your master, act as if you are not.  Never take your position for granted.  Never let favors you receive go to your head.  Discreet flattery is much more powerful. Make it seem like you want to seek hisexpertise and advice./t2. NEVER PUT TOO MUCH TRUST IN FRIENDS, LEARN HOW TO USE/tENEMIES.  Transgression of the Law.Michael III of the Byzantine Empire in the mid-ninth century A.D. placed too muchtrust in his friend, Basilius. This was a young man who had once saved his life, and inreturn, was given all the privileges an emperor could bestow on a friend. Michaelturned the peasant Basilius into a sophisticated and educated courtier. Basilius lateron became greedy for more wealth and power and had his former benefactor andbest friend Michael III murdered.  Observance of the LawEmperor Sung of China in 959 A.D. was able to turn all his enemies into loyal friends.He persuaded his generals to retire to a life of nobility and give up their dreams ofwww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 3grabbing his throne one day. He spared those who conspired against him, and wasable to win over enemies with his generosity.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Do not rely on friends. They will never be totally honest with you. They will notopenly disagree with you in order to avoid arguments.  Enemies expect nothing so they will be surprised when you are generous.  An enemy spared the guillotine will be more grateful to you than a friend.  When you decide to hire a friend you will discover qualities she has kept hidden.  Skill and competence are more important than friendly feelings.  Hiring friends will limit your power.  All working situations require a kind of distance between people.  You destroy an enemy when you make a friend of him.  An enemy at your heels keeps you sharp, alert, and focused./t3. CONCEAL YOUR INTENTIONS./t  Transgression of the Law.The Marquis de Sevigne was young and inexperienced in the art of love. He confidedin the infamous courtesan of seventeenth-century France, Ninon de Lenclos, toinstruct him on how to seduce a difficult young countess. She made him follow a planover a number of weeks, where the Marquis would be appearing in public alwayssurrounded by beautiful women, in the very places the countess would be expectedto see him. He was supposed to assume an air of nonchalance. This increased thejealousy of the young countess, who was not sure of his interest in her. One day theMarquis, unable to control his passion, broke from Ninons plan, and blurted out tothe countess that he loved her. After this admission, the countess no longer foundhim interesting and avoided him.  Observance of the LawOtto von Bismarck was a deputy in the Prussian parliament at a time when manyfellow deputies thought it was possible to go to war against Austria and defeat it.Bismarck knew the Prussian army was not prepared, so he devised a clever way tokeep the war at bay. He publicly stated his praises for the Austrians and talked aboutthe madness of war. Many deputies changed their votes. Had Bismarck announcedhis real intentions, arguing it was better to wait now and fight later, he would not havewon. Most Prussians wanted to go to war at that moment and mistakenly believedtheir army to be superior to the Austrians. Had he gone to the king his sincerity wouldhave been doubted. By giving misleading statements about wanting peace andconcealing his true purpose, Bismarcks speech catapulted him to the position ofprime minister. He later led the country to war against the Austrians at the right time,when he felt the Prussian army was more capable.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Use decoyed objects of desire and red herrings to throw people off scent.  Use smoke screens (a poker face) to disguise your actions.  False sincerity is one powerful tool that will send your rivals on a wild goosechase.  Publicly declare your false intentions to give misleading signals.  A noble gesture can be a smoke screen to hide your true intentions.  Blend in and people will be less suspicious./t4. ALWAYS SAY LESS THAN NECESSARY./twww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 4  Transgression of the Law.Coriolanus was a great military hero of ancient Rome. People held him in awe, untilhe opened his mouth. He spoke his mind, hardly able to control his arrogance andboastfulness. He slandered and insulted people. The more speeches he made, theless people respected him. He suffered the peoples wrath and was eventuallybanished from the city.  Observance of the LawMasters of enigma Andy Warhol and Marcel Duchamp knew the power of saying lessand keeping people guessing. The less Duchamp talked about his work, the more itwas talked about in the art circles. Andy Warhol recognized it was hard to talk peopleinto doing what you wanted, so when interviewed, he would give vague andambiguous answers and let the interviewer find his own interpretation.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Saying less will keep you from saying something foolish or even dangerous.  Once the words are out you cannot take them back.  Keeping silent makes people reveal more about themselves. This is informationyou may be able to use against them later on./t5. SO MUCH DEPENDS ON REPUTATION  GUARD IT WITH YOURLIFE./t  Observance of the LawDuring Chinas War of the Three Kingdoms (A.D.207-265), General Liang was able tofool his rival Sima Yi simply by letting his track record for being an undefeated leaderin battle do the work for him. Liangs troops were far outnumbered by Sima Yis, yethe devised a clever last resort plan. Liang donned a Taoist robe and played the luteupon the wall of the city he was defending. His soldiers opened the gates and hid.When Sima Yis troops advanced upon the unguarded city, Yi recognized hisopponent sitting alone upon the wall. Fearing a trap, Sima Yi called his soldiers toretreat.P.T. Barnum was an expert at destroying his competitors reputation. He publishedletters in newspapers, warning the public against buying his opponents stock. Hewas a master at poking mockery at the tactics of his rivals.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Sow doubt and spread rumors about your rival. Even if they vehemently deny it,people will still be wondering why they are so defensive.  Use humor or gentle mockery at your rivals expense.  A solid reputation increases your presence and exaggerates your strengthswithout your having to spend much energy.  Never appear desperate in your self-defense against the slander of others.  Be careful not to go too far in attacking anothers reputation, it draws moreattention to your vengefulness than to the person you are slandering. Use subtlertactics like satire and ridicule./t6. COURT ATTENTION AT ALL COST./t Observance of the Lawwww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 5P.T. Barnum learned about courting attention to his favor. Any form of publicity wouldbenefit his entertainment business, no matter if it were bad publicity. He promoted hisshows of curiosities to audiences with all kinds of gimmicks. He would offer FreeMusic for Millions, but hire bad musicians, so the crowd would end up buying ticketsto the show so they could avoid the bands. He planted articles in newspapers andeven sent anonymous letters to keep his name in the limelight.Margaretha Zelle was able to use this law to make a name for herself as themysterious exotic dancer Mata Hari. It was rumored she was from India and dancedin private parties, in an Eastern manner never before seen in Europe. She wouldslowly discard her veils and sarongs for the most prominent people in Paris whocame to see her. Many years later it would be discovered she was just a native ofHolland and had worked for the Germans as a spy.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Surround your name with the sensational and the scandalous.  Create an air of mystery.  It is better to be attacked and slandered than ignored.  Make yourself appear larger than life.  Any sort of notoriety will bring you power./t7. GET OTHERS TO DO THE WORK FOR YOU, BUT ALWAYS TAKE THECREDIT./t  Transgression and Observance of the LawNicola Tesla was a Serbian scientist who never learned how this law was usedagainst him time and again. His invention, the AC or alternating current system wasassociated not with his name but with that of George Westinghouse, who funded hisresearch. Both Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse were ruthlessbusinessmen who took credit for Teslas work. In the end, Tesla was living in poverty,while royalties for his lifes work went to Edison and Westinghouse. He acceptedsmall sums as buy-outs for his work, when in reality his creations could have beenworth millions. Even Marconi made use of a patent filed by Tesla in 1897. Tesla wasthe real father of radio but received no money or credit for this invention.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Save time and energy by hiring others to do the work.  Your helpers will be forgotten and you will be remembered.  Borrow from history. Use the past and profit by others experience.  You can only exploit others talents if your position is unshakable./t8. MAKE OTHER PEOPLE COME TO YOU  USE BAIT IF NECESSARY./t  Observance of the LawNapoleons former foreign minister Talleyrand was master of this law. He knewNapoleon loved the adoration of the masses, and this was the perfect bait to makethe former ruler play into the hands of his opponents. In 1814 Napoleon wasbanished to a small island called Elba near Italy. Here he was given information thatFrance would embrace him again if he escaped. From Elba he was able to escapeand march back into Paris with a small army. The people bowed to him, and soldierschanged sides to join him. The statesmen who had taken over his empire fled.Talleyrand watched as his plan unfolded. Napoleon ruled France again for a hundreddays, but the country was bankrupt and could not sustain Napoleons wars anylonger. Napoleon was recaptured at the Battle of Waterloo and exiled to the barrenisland St. Helena, off the west coast of Africa. This was a much further place with nochance of escape, and was more to Talleyrands liking.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 6Wisdom in a nutshell:  For negotiations and meetings, it is wise to lure others into your territory, or aterritory of your choice.  Once someone suspects you are manipulating him, it will be harder to controlhim. Making him come to you gives the illusion he is in control.  Most often the effective action is to stay back, keep calm, and let others befrustrated by the traps you set for them./t9. WIN THROUGH YOUR ACTIONS, NEVER THROUGH ARGUMENT./t  Observance of the LawMichelangelo knew how to satisfy a patron while getting his way at the same time. PieroSoderini, Florences mayor, commissioned him to transform a ruined piece of marble intoa statue. Soderini visited the studio one day and commented that the nose of the statue(that of David with a sling in his hand) was too big. Michelangelo invited the mayor toclimb up a scaffolding, allowing him to look at the nose from a different perspective, whilethe artist chiseled a bit, pretending to correct the size of the nose. The mayor wasconvinced the nose looked much better. Michelangelo succeeded in making Soderinithink his comment had helped improve the work.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Demonstrate, do not explicate.  Arguing will only offend your superior.  Learn to demonstrate the correctness of your ideas indirectly.  Choose your battles carefully.  Dont bother demonstrating if time and experience will eventually teach the otherperson what you are trying to say. Save your energy and walk away.  No one can argue with a demonstrated proof./t10. INFECTION: AVOID THE UNHAPPY AND THE UNLUCKY./t  Transgression of the LawIn the 1840s Marie Gilbert, better known as Lola Montez, came to Paris to become adancer and performer. She had many husbands, and caused the ruin of many a powerfulman. Because of her ambition to be a dancer she accidentally ran into AlexandreDujarier, then the owner of Frances most popular newspaper and a drama critic himself.Although still legally married to an Englishman with whom she eloped at 19, Lola kept herstatus secret from all her husbands. Dujarier was shot dead defending her honor at aduel against another drama critic. Lola went on to have several husbands, even causingKing Ludwig of Bavaria to abdicate. She left another man who later fell into a deepdepression, became a drunkard, and eventually died at a relatively young age. The manwho published her autobiography went bankrupt.Wisdom in a nutshell:  In the game of power, the people you associate with are critical.  An infector can be recognized by the misfortune they draw on themselves, theirturbulent past, a long line of broken relationships, unstable careers, the veryintensity of their emotions, and the force of their character.  Gravitate towards prosperous, cheerful, and gregarious people.  Never associate with those who share your defects./t11. LEARN TO KEEP PEOPLE DEPENDENT ON YOU./tObservance of the Lawwww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 7Michelangelo was able to keep his patron Pope Julius II dependent on him. When he andthe pope quarreled over the building of the popes marble tomb, Michelangelo left Romein disgust. The pope sought him out and begged the artist to stay. Michelangelo knew hecould always find another patron, but the pope knew he could not find anotherMichelangelo.Michelangelos power was intensive, depending on one skill. Henry Kissingers powerwas extensive. He was so involved in so many areas of the political structure that toremove him would lead to chaos. The intensive form of power provides more freedomthan the extensive.Machiavelli said it is better to be feared than loved. Fear can be controlled; love, never.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Be the only one who can do what you do. Make the fate of those who hire you soentwined with yours they cannot possibly get rid of you.  If you are ambitious, it is wiser to seek out weak masters with whom you cancreate a relationship of dependency.  Possess a talent or creative skill that sets you apart from the crowd.  By knowing other peoples secrets and holding information they wouldnt wantmade public, you seal your fate with theirs./t12. USE SELECTIVE HONESTY AND GENEROSITY TO DISARM YOURVICTIM./t  Observance of the LawCount Victor Lustig promised Al Capone into giving him $50,000 on the terms that hewould double this investment in sixty days. Lustig kept the money untouched in a safetydeposit box. After the sixty days were up, he apologized to Capone saying he had failedto double the money. Capone expected either $100,000, or nothing, what he did notexpect was an honest gesture of Lustig actually returning the $50,000. Al Capone was aman who lived in constant mistrust of people around him, and was so touched by thehonest gesture he gave Lustig an extra $5,000.The classic tale of the Fall of Troy is one example of hiding your ulterior motives within agift. The Trojan Horse was designed to hold soldiers that would attack the city of Troyand recapture Helen who had been taken away from the Greeks by Paris.Wisdom in a nutshell:  The essence of deception is distraction. An act of kindness, generosity, orhonesty will distract and disarm people and turn them into gullible children.  Give before you take.  Nothing in the realm of power is set in stone. Overt deceptiveness maysometimes cover your tracks. If you have a history of deceit behind you, thenplay the rogue, be consistent and this will be interpreted as you simply beingyourself. Your dishonesty becomes an act of honesty./t13. WHEN ASKING FOR HELP, APPEAL TO PEOPLES SELF-INTEREST,NEVER TO THEIR MERCY OR GRATITUDE./t  Observance of the LawGenghis Khan was known for his greed and self-interest. When he conquered China,instead of slaughtering all the citizens, his adviser Yelu Chu-Tsai persuaded him to reapthe benefits of their new territory by taxing its people. It was Tsai who also convincedKhan to spare the inhabitants of Kaifeng, where Chinas finest craftsmen and engineershad fled. Tsais reasoning was Khan could use these people for his own benefit.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 8Most people are very pragmatic, and when negotiating, do not bring up the need forgratitude for what you have done for others in the past. These appeals will be ignored.Pragmatic people look towards the future, so it is best to emphasize how they will benefitfrom an alliance with you.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Understand the other persons motivation.  See things their way and offer suggestions that will advance their cause.  For others who want to feel superior and do not want to appear selfish, appeal totheir need to display their charity in the public eye./t14. POSE AS A FRIEND, WORK AS A SPY./t  Observance of the LawJoseph Duveen was the greatest art dealer of his time; from 1904-1940 he singlehandedly monopolized the art-collecting market through his ingenious spying tactics. Hewould place the household employees of his potential clients on his own payroll. Thesespies would provide him valuable information as the tastes of his mark. He would arrange accidental meetings in elevators, leading his prey of wealthy patrons right into his trap.When clients came to visit his galleries, they found themselves surrounded by works theywould most likely buy.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Gather information at social events when peoples guards are down.  Use other people to give you the information you need.  Mislead others by giving out false information. Watch them react and base yournext action on what you discover./t15. CRUSH YOUR ENEMY TOTALLY./t  Observance of the LawThe great Empress Wu of China was ruthless in her rise to power. She started out as aconcubine of an emperor, but did not want to follow the traditional path: that of living therest of her life in a convent after the emperors death. She had seduced the emperorsson in the royal urinal and befriended his wife. Because of this Wu was able to get a royaledict out of the convent. She returned to the harem, became pregnant, and murdered herown baby, knowing the prime suspect would be the jealous wife of the new emperor. Thewife was charged with murder and executed. Wu took her place and her new husbandhanded over the reins of government to her, opting for a life of pleasure. Empress Wuruled until the age of eighty when she was forced to abdicate. Throughout her rule sheeliminated son after son, anyone who would challenge her throne.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Show no mercy. Crush your rivals or else you will give them time to regroup andplot their revenge.  Banish enemies or plot for the best time to render them harmless.  Leave your enemies no options.  Sometimes enemies will destroy themselves.  Thoughts of reconciliation will open you up to attack./t16. USE ABSENCE TO INCREASE RESPECT AND HONOR./tObservance of the Lawwww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 9This law is most appreciated in matters of seduction and love. Make yourself tooavailable and your presence will be taken for granted. In the Middle Ages, ladies playedthe game of presence and absence by sending their knights off on long arduous quests.Sir Guillaume de Balaun wanted to taste the joy of love after reconciliation, and twice heintentionally made himself scarce, withdrawing his affections from Madame Guillelma deJaviac. The first time he drove his lover wild with grief, the second time she becameangry and cut him off. When he wrote her begging to be let back into her favor, sheallowed him back only on the condition he do penance for his cruelty.With business, an early retirement at the height of your career will keep people holdingyou in high regard, and waiting to see you make a comeback.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Create value through scarcity. Make yourself less accessible; otherwise the aurayou have created around yourself will wear away./t17. KEEP OTHERS IN SUSPENDED TERROR: CULTIVATE AN AIR OFUNPREDICTABILITY./t  Observance of the LawBobby Fischer beat chess champion Boris Spassky using this law of unpredictability.Spasskys method of playing chess was to base his strategy on the patterns he read inhis opponents moves. Fischer unnerved him by arriving late for the first two tournaments,even letting a match get forfeited. On the third game he made moves that were souncharacteristic and bold Spassky was thrown off balance. Fourteen games laterSpassky claimed Fischer was probably putting drugs in the orange juice they drank whileplaying. Spassky resigned a few months later and never recovered from his defeat.Wisdom in a nutshell:  A person of power instills fear by deliberately unsettling those around him to keepthe initiative on his side.  Only the terminally subordinate act in a predictable manner./t18. DO NOT BUILD FORTRESSES TO PROTECT YOURSELF ISOLATION IS DANGEROUS./t  Observance of the LawKing Louis XIV recognized the importance of always keeping his eyes and ears oneveryone and everything around him. He built a palace in Versailles where all the nobilitycould keep apartments near to his. He knew that if he were to isolate himself for onemoment, conspiracies would rise behind his back. The daily activities all revolved aroundthe king, leaving no one unnoticed, hundreds of visitors and attendants were alwayspresent. There was not very much privacy for the king and he preferred this life to one ofisolation.Wisdom in a nutshell:  A fortress may be impregnable, but everyone knows you are there and it may easilyturn into a prison.  Power depends on social interaction and circulation.  Isolation is deadly for the creative arts. Shakespeare was always producing plays forthe masses. He was in constant touch with reality and what people wanted.  Mobility and social contact protects you from plotters./t19. KNOW WHO YOURE DEALING WITH  DO NOT OFFEND THEWRONG PERSON./tTransgression of the Lawwww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 10In the early thirteenth century, Muhammad the Shah of Khwarezm made the gravemistake in offending a new tribal leader who was emerging in the east. His name wasGenghis Khan. Khan offered to share the Silk Route with Muhammad, sendingambassadors to forge a deal. After his ambassadors were beheaded, Genghis Khandeclared war. Eventually his forces seized the capital of the Shahs empire, Samarkand.Muhammad fled, and the Silk Route fell into the hands of Genghis Khan.Learn to distinguish from opponent, sucker, and victim. The five difficult and sometimesdangerous marks are: the arrogant and proud, the hopelessly insecure, the suspicious,the serpent with a long memory, and the plain, unassuming, unintelligent man.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Measure up your opponent, but never rely on instinct. Do some research on concretefacts about that persons character and history.  Never trust appearances./t20. DO NOT COMMIT TO ANYONE./t  Observance of the LawQueen Elizabeth I managed to avoid the trap of marriage and war, by dangling thepossibility of marriage to all who courted her. She forged alliances with the countriesthese suitors came from, all for the benefit of England. By keeping her independenceabove all, Elizabeth protected her power and made herself an object of worship.Wisdom in a nutshell:  By refusing to commit, but allowing yourself to be courted, you become powerfulbecause you are ungraspable.  As your reputation for independence grows, more people will desire you and want toconquer you.  Politely decline. You cannot allow yourself to feel obligated to anyone.  Seek promises from both sides, so no matter what the outcome of an election orbattle, your position is secure.  Observe quarreling parties and stay neutral but supportive to both sides. Gain poweras a mediator.  You may commit to one to prove you are capable of attachment, but be emotionallyuninvolved. Preserve the unspoken option of being able to leave anytime and reclaimyour freedom. The friends you made while being courted will help you jump ship./t21. PLAY A SUCKER TO CATCH A SUCKER  SEEM DUMBER THANYOUR MARK./t  Observance of the LawIn what was the biggest diamond scam of the century, prospectors Philip Arnold andJohn Slack fooled the biggest financiers of the time, Asbury Harpending, BaronRothschild, and William Ralston into investing their millions in a fake mine site. The twomen played up their small town, scruffy image; convincing the sophisticated tycoons thatthey would easily be bought out for their discovery of the mines. In the end, after the legalpay-off was made to the two men, the investors realized the mine had been salted withuncut gems by Arnold and Slack. Since all the business had been legal, and experts hadinspected the mines, there was no way to go after the two men.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Intelligence is an important part of peoples vanity. Subliminally reassure youropponent of his superiority.  Playing nave lets you see opportunities to deceive others.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 11/t22. USE THE SURRENDER TACTIC: TRANSFORM WEAKNESS INTOPOWER./t  Observance of the LawGerman writer Bertolt Brecht was called to appear before the US Congresss House ofUn-American Activities Committee during the heyday of the Communist investigations.Unlike his companions in the Hollywood 19, (other producers, directors and writers whoespoused communism in their scripts) he chose to be respectful to the committee. Subtlyhe mocked them by offering vague but polite answers, used an interpreter to run circlesaround them when asked about the lines from his poems, and was summarily dismissed.He was free to leave America and continue writing as he pleased, while his friends inHollywood lost valuable working years as a result of being blacklisted.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Do not fight aggression with aggression. Put your opponent off-guard by yielding, andin effect have more control over the situation.  Surrender is a way of mocking your enemies.  Surrender disguises your real motives and allows time to plan your next move./t23. CONCENTRATE YOUR FORCES./t  Observance of the LawThe Rothschild banking family concentrated its wealth within a very tight-knit structure.Five brothers each controlled a part of the empire from Paris, Frankfurt, Vienna, Naples,to London. They established themselves as a powerful force in business and politics,keeping the secrets of the family business by exchanging internal communications only incode or Frankfurt Yiddish. Family policy ruled and their children intermarried, all of themfirst cousins.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Single-mindedness of purpose and total concentration on one goal will overwhelmthe enemy every time.  A single patron appreciates your loyalty and becomes dependent on your services.  In the arts, being too single-minded can make you an intolerable bore./t24. PLAY THE PERFECT COURTIER./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Avoid ostentation. Talk less about yourself. Modesty is generally preferable.  Practice nonchalance. All your hard work must come off as effortless.  Be frugal with flattery.  Arrange to be noticed. Alter your style and language according to the person you are dealing with.  Never be the bearer of bad news.  Never affect friendliness and intimacy with your master.  Never criticize those above you directly.  Be frugal in asking those above you for favors.  Never joke about appearances or taste.  Do not be the court cynic.  Be self-observant.  Master your emotions.  Fit the spirit of the times.  Be a source of pleasure./t25. RE-CREATE YOURSELF.Observance of the Law/twww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 12Julius Caesar always incorporated drama and theatrics in his speeches and dailyappearances. He was a great public showman, timing his entrances and exits,sponsoring extravagant spectacles, gladiator shows and theatrical events. The massesloved him, but his rivals feared him.Aurore Dupin Dudevant left her husband and family in the provinces to become a writer inParis, something unheard of and almost impossible for a woman to do in 1831. For thepublication of her novel Indiana, she assumed the pseudonym George Sand. Shedressed in mens breeches, smoked cigars, and expressed herself in conversation like aman. She even carried on affairs with the most famous artists of Europe - Musset, Liszt,and Chopin - living with freedom and independence unlike any other female writer beforeher.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Control your appearances and emotions. Play sincere, but not necessarily besincere.  Create a memorable character. Do not limit yourself to the role society assigns toyou./t26. KEEP YOUR HANDS CLEAN./tObservance of the Law:Cleopatra was always able to get people to do her bidding without them realizing she wasmanipulating them. She was able to charm Julius Caesar into restoring her to the throneof Egypt, and playing her siblings against each other. Marc Antony was seduced by her,and had her younger sister Arsinoe executed, ridding Cleopatra of any threats to herplace as Queen.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Conceal your mistakes. Your good name and reputation depends more on what youconceal than on what you reveal.  Always have a convenient scapegoat.  Never do the dirty work yourself./t27. PLAY ON PEOPLES NEED TO BELIEVE TO CREATE A CULT-LIKEFOLLOWING./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Keep it simple; keep it vague. Create new words for vague concepts.  Emphasize the visual and sensual over the intellectual.  Borrow the forms of organized religion to structure the group. Create rituals. Usenames and ranks and titles. Ask them to make sacrifices and give alms. Act like aguru or a prophet.  Disguise your source of income.  Set up an us-versus-them dynamic. Keep followers united by identifying outsiders asa devious enemy.  The tendency to doubt and reason is broken down when we join a group./t28. ENTER ACTION WITH BOLDNESS./tIvan the Terrible waited five years before executing his first major bold move. After yearsof persecution by the Shuisky family, the poisoning of his mother Helena, and thebanishment of his only friend Vorontsov, the thirteen year-old Ivan invited his rival PrinceAndrei Shuisky into his room. No one feared the young boy and the boyars often ridiculedhim. When the guards were suddenly ordered to seize Prince Andrei and execute him, noone saw it coming. This one swift and bold act secured Ivans power for decades tocome.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 13Ivan initially lay low, showing neither ambition nor discontent. He waited until he had wonover the palace guards to his side. They had come to hate the cruelty of the Shuiskysover the years, and the time was at hand to strike boldly and swiftly.Wisdom in a nutshell:  The bolder the lie, the better.  Lions circle the hesitant prey.  Boldness strikes fear; Fear creates authority.  Going halfway digs the deeper grave. Do not negotiate if you opponent will morelikely take the opportunity to destroy you.  Hesitation creates gaps. Boldness obliterates them. Move swiftly and surely.  Audacity separates you from the herd./t29. PLAN ALL THE WAY TO THE END.Wisdom in a nutshell:/t  Take into account all possible obstacles and circumstances that may prevent youfrom achieving your goal, and plan how you will overcome them.  When you see several steps ahead, you will no longer need to improvise along theway, and risk deviating from your plan.  Prepare alternatives and be open to adapt new routes to your goal./t30. MAKE YOUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS SEEM EFFORTLESS.Observance of the Law:/tSen no Rikyu was an important tea master and adviser on aesthetic and political mattersto the Emperor Hideyoshi. He despised hosts who looked like they were trying to hard.Cha-no-yu, or the Japanese tea ceremony, is an art form, from the preparation to theserving; the whole process must look natural and easy. Accidental grace and beautywere Rikyus specialty. On the night before the Emperor was to visit him for a teaceremony, he artfully laid cushions in the snow on each stepping-stone to his house. Inthe morning, he removed the cushions revealing the pattern of the stepping-stones like aperfect mold within the snow. This was just one of Rikyus clever aesthetic tricks whichimpressed the Emperor, never calling attention to the work gone into it, but implying apolite gesture in itself.Wisdom in a nutshell:  What imitates nature by appearing effortless and natural approximates naturespower.  Never show your work until it is finished. When people see the effort and time it takesto make it, and if they witness a work-in-progress, the magic of the finished piece isspoiled./t31. CONTROL THE OPTIONS: GET OTHERS TO PLAY WITH THE CARDSYOU DEAL./tObservance of the Law:Seventeenth-century French courtesan Ninon de Lenclos needed to devise a way ofmaintaining her lifestyle while having the freedom no woman could achieve in her day.She gave her lovers and suitors three choices, a payeur would pay for her services, butshe would only sleep with him when she liked, a martyr would not have to pay, and bepart of her harem of men, and from the martyrs she would choose a favori, or one man towhom she would abandon herself to totally until she was tired of him. The payeurs wereable to finance her needs while she enjoyed complete freedom, independence, andvariety from her lovers. She had the equality to men no married woman of the time couldpossess.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 14Wisdom in a nutshell:  Make people your puppets and give them options to let them feel they have control.Force them to choose between the lesser of two evils, both of which serve yourpurpose.  Present options but color the one you prefer as the best solution.  Force the resister into choosing to do what you want by appearing to advocate theopposite.  Alter the playing field so the only options available are the ones you offer.  Shrinking options force people to buy in now or else the goods wont be availabletomorrow.  The weak man must be propelled into action through fear and terror.  Involving your victim in your scheme with the threat of their exposure later will keepthem tied to you. They cannot expose you because they will be found out as well.  Use the horns of a dilemma: whichever way they choose, there is no escape./t32. PLAY TO PEOPLES FANTASIES./tObservance of the Law:In the 1700s, a mysterious stranger named George Psalmanazar came to fame with hisbooks and lectures on the language, culture and history of the island of Formosa (nowTaiwan). After his death, it was revealed that he was in fact a Frenchman with a richimagination who played on the British need for the exotic and strange. He had inventedeverything he had professed to be an expert on, having capitalized on it with best-sellingbooks and having been a favorite guest at many royal dinners.Abraham Lincoln created an image of himself as the homespun country lawyer with abeard. He played to the fantasy of the common mans president.Wisdom in a nutshell:  People need a fantasy to escape from the humdrum of everyday life. The morevague and exotic, the more captivating.  Promise a pot of gold and instant gratification, rather than a gradual improvementthrough hard work.  Keep your distance so the fantasy remains intact./t33. DISCOVER EACH MANS THUMBSCREW./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Every person has a weakness or insecurity you can use to your advantage.  Train yourself to probe for weaknesses in everyday conversation.  Find the childhood need that went unfulfilled, supply it, and your victim will be unableto resist you.  Peoples weaknesses are the opposite of the qualities they reveal to you. The shyperson is actually dying for attention; a prude may be hiding a lascivious soul, etc.  Find the weak link or the one person in a group who will bend under pressure.  Feed on uncontrollable emotions or motive  paranoia, lust, greed, vanity, or hatred.  When searching for suckers, always look for the unhappy, insecure and dissatisfied./t34. BE ROYAL IN YOUR OWN FASHION: ACT LIKE A KING TO BETREATED LIKE ONE./tWisdom in a nutshell:  How you carry yourself reflects what you think of yourself. Exude confidence and thefeeling you were destined for greatness.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of Power     Page 15Do not confuse regal bearing with arrogance.Dignity is the mask you assume under difficult circumstances. Act like nothing canaffect you and you have all the time in the world to respond.Set your price high and do not waver.Deal with the highest person in the building.A gift is an equalizer. You do not beg but ask for help in a dignified way./t35. MASTER THE ART OF TIMING./tTime as a human-made conceptThere are three kinds of time we deal with when building power: the Long Time is theyears-long period of waiting for the right opportunity while creating a strong foundation orbase to work from. Forced Time is upsetting the timing of others and setting theirdeadlines for them. The opponent will be more likely to make mistakes because of theneed to hurry, or in the case of business, will be forced to buy whatever you offerbecause the time to make a decision is limited. End Time is when we execute a plan withspeed and absolutely no hesitation.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Never look as though you are in a hurry. It betrays a lack of control.  Learn to stand back and be patient. Strike only when the time is right.  Anticipate events and work with the spirit of the times.  Recognizing the prevailing winds does not necessarily mean running with them.36. DISDAIN THINGS YOU CANNOT HAVE: IGNORING THEM IS THEBEST REVENGE.Wisdom in a nutshell:  The more attention you pay an enemy, the stronger you make him. The less interest youshow, the more superior you seem.  Remember: You choose to let things bother you. You can just as easily choose toconsider the matter trivial and unworthy of your interest. That is the powerful move.  If it is impossible to ignore, then secretly get rid of it. Sometimes threats just go away bythemselves./t37. CREATE COMPELLING SPECTACLES./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Never neglect the way you arrange things visually.  Associate yourself with colors, images and symbols that communicate strongmessages.  People are always impressed by the superficial appearance of things, the grand, andthe spectacular, what is larger than life./t38. THINK AS YOU LIKE BUT BEHAVE LIKE OTHERS./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Wise and clever people learn early on that they can display conventional behaviorand mouth conventional ideas without having to believe in them.  Put on the mask appropriate to the group you are joining./t39. STIR UP WATERS TO CATCH FISH./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Anger and emotion are strategically unproductive. Make your enemies angry but staycalm yourself.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of Power   Page 16Angry people usually end up looking ridiculous.Nothing in the game of power is personal.An occasional outburst may be powerful, but use anger too often and it loses itspower./t40. DESPISE THE FREE LUNCH./tWisdom in a nutshell:  By paying your own way you stay free of gratitude. What is offered for free normallyhas a hidden obligation.  Generosity is a sign of power. Most powerful people spend freely and are not misers.  Use money as a way to give pleasure to others and win them over./t41. AVOID STEPPING INTO A GREAT MANS SHOES./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Choose a different path and personal style if you are the daughter or son of a greatperson. You will forever be in your predecessors shadow unless you find a way toshine on your own.  Only after the father figure has been done away with will there be space to establisha new order.  Do not become complacent once you reach success and security. Prosperity makesus lazy. Writers like Tennessee Williams and Fyodor Dostoyevsky preferred thestruggle to security; the way poverty or emotional difficulties pushed them to creategood work./t42. STRIKE THE SHEPHERD AND THE SHEEP WILL SCATTER./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Within any group, trouble can be traced to a single source, the unhappy,chronically unsatisfied one who stirs up dissension and infects the group.Recognize troublemakers by their complaining nature. Separate him from thegroup.  In every group power is concentrated in the hands of one or two people. Humannature shows people will orbit around a single strong personality./t43. WORK ON THE HEARTS AND MINDS OF OTHERS./tTransgression of the LawMarie-Antoinette was put to death by guillotine in 1793, after the French monarchy wasended by the revolution. Not a single soul came to her defense. Marie-Antoinette broughtupon herself the hatred of all. Her jewelry, wardrobe, hair, and masked balls, her lavishlifestyle had been more important to her than the needs of her people.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Aim at the primary emotions: love, hate, and jealousy. Be alert to peoplesindividual psychologies and their basic emotional responses.  Maintain a stable of writers, artists, or intellectuals who are very good atappealing to peoples hearts and minds./t44. DISARM AND INFURIATE WITH THE MIRROR EFFECT./tWisdom in a nutshell:  The neutralizing effect: Do what your enemies do, follow their actions and theywill not see what you are up to. When you mirror them, if mocks and humiliatesthem. Mimicry infuriates.  The Shadow effect: Shadow your opponents every move, gather information,and gain insight to their routines and habits without them seeing you.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of Power   Page 17The Mirror effect: Show you understand by reflecting their innermost feelings.The Moral effect: Teach others a lesson by giving them a taste of their ownmedicine.The Hallucinatory effect: offer a perfect copy of an object, place or person andsee how people take the bait./t45. PREACH THE NEED FOR CHANGE, BUT NEVER REFORM TOOMUCH AT ONCE./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Make change and reform seem like a gentle improvement on the past. Peopleare creatures of habit and the sudden change will cause some to rebel.  Disguise change by dressing it in tradition./t46. NEVER APPEAR TOO PERFECT./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Never underestimate the power of envy. Occasionally reveal a weakness, defect,or anxiety, or find new friends. It is the people in your own circle of peers who willbe the first to envy your success.  Envy is often a problem for people who have great natural talent. You may thinkyou are charming people with your natural talent when in fact they are coming tohate you for it.  To deflect envy, employ a display of weakness, or a harmless vice.  Envy is disguised sometimes as excessive praise, or slander and criticism. Winyour revenge by ignoring the envious.  Reversal: Display the utmost disdain for those who envy you. Instead of hidingyour perfection, make it obvious. Make every triumph an opportunity to make theenvious squirm./t47. DO NOT GO PAST THE MARK YOU AIMED FOR; IN VICTORY, LEARNWHEN TO STOP./tWisdom in a nutshell:  The powerful know that the essence of strategy is controlling what comes next.  There is no better time to stop and walk away than after a victory./t48. ASSUME FORMLESSNESS./tWisdom in a nutshell:Accept the fact that nothing is certain and no law is fixed. Be as fluid and formless aswater, adapting and moving with change naturally. The powerful are creative inexpressing something new. This feminine, formless style of ruling as practiced byElizabeth of England and Catherine of Russia, allows flexibility and makes subjects feelless coerced. Play the chameleon but break your enemy from the inside. Morph andadapt but keep your long-term strategy in mind at all times.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com 