DISCOVER EACH MANS THUMBSCREW./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Every person has a weakness or insecurity you can use to your advantage.
An enemy at your heels keeps you sharp, alert, and focused./t3.
It was rumored she was from India and dancedin private parties, in an Eastern manner never before seen in Europe.
Act like aguru or a prophet.
When people see the effort and time it takesto make it, and if they witness a work-in-progress, the magic of the finished piece isspoiled./t31.
KNOW WHO YOURE DEALING WITH  DO NOT OFFEND THEWRONG PERSON./tTransgression of the Lawwww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 10In the early thirteenth century, Muhammad the Shah of Khwarezm made the gravemistake in offending a new tribal leader who was emerging in the east.
In the end, Tesla was living in poverty,while royalties for his lifes work went to Edison and Westinghouse.
Her jewelry, wardrobe, hair, and masked balls, her lavishlifestyle had been more important to her than the needs of her people.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Aim at the primary emotions: love, hate, and jealousy.
They cannot expose you because they will be found out as well.
The Kingfound a convenient excuse to get rid of Fouquet.
By giving misleading statements about wanting peace andconcealing his true purpose, Bismarcks speech catapulted him to the position ofprime minister.
Michelangelo knew hecould always find another patron, but the pope knew he could not find anotherMichelangelo.Michelangelos power was intensive, depending on one skill.
Make the fate of those who hire you soentwined with yours they cannot possibly get rid of you.
You may thinkyou are charming people with your natural talent when in fact they are coming tohate you for it.
The less interest youshow, the more superior you seem.
Transgression of the Law.Michael III of the Byzantine Empire in the mid-ninth century A.D. placed too muchtrust in his friend, Basilius.
WORK ON THE HEARTS AND MINDS OF OTHERS./tTransgression of the LawMarie-Antoinette was put to death by guillotine in 1793, after the French monarchy wasended by the revolution.
Dont bother demonstrating if time and experience will eventually teach the otherperson what you are trying to say.
The weak man must be propelled into action through fear and terror.
NEVER OUTSHINE THE MASTER./t  Transgression of the Law.Finance Minister Fouquet unintentionally outshone his master, King Louis XIV, makingthe King feel insecure by throwing a lavish party that would show off Fouquetsconnections, cultivated manner and charm.
Michaelturned the peasant Basilius into a sophisticated and educated courtier.
She left another man who later fell into a deepdepression, became a drunkard, and eventually died at a relatively young age.
Andy Warhol recognized it was hard to talk peopleinto doing what you wanted, so when interviewed, he would give vague andambiguous answers and let the interviewer find his own interpretation.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Saying less will keep you from saying something foolish or even dangerous.
Fourteen games laterSpassky claimed Fischer was probably putting drugs in the orange juice they drank whileplaying.
He played to the fantasy of the common mans president.Wisdom in a nutshell:  People need a fantasy to escape from the humdrum of everyday life.
This is informationyou may be able to use against them later on./t5.
RE-CREATE YOURSELF.Observance of the Law/twww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 12Julius Caesar always incorporated drama and theatrics in his speeches and dailyappearances.
When he wrote her begging to be let back into her favor, sheallowed him back only on the condition he do penance for his cruelty.With business, an early retirement at the height of your career will keep people holdingyou in high regard, and waiting to see you make a comeback.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Create value through scarcity.
The first time he drove his lover wild with grief, the second time she becameangry and cut him off.
He was a great public showman, timing his entrances and exits,sponsoring extravagant spectacles, gladiator shows and theatrical events.
Fischer unnerved him by arriving late for the first two tournaments,even letting a match get forfeited.
PieroSoderini, Florences mayor, commissioned him to transform a ruined piece of marble intoa statue.
When you decide to hire a friend you will discover qualities she has kept hidden.
In order to solvehis perennial problem of funding, he dedicated his discovery of the moons of Jupiter tothe Medicis, since the royal symbol of the Medici family was the planet Jupiter.
Practice nonchalance.
In the arts, being too single-minded can make you an intolerable bore./t24.
The statesmen who had taken over his empire fled.Talleyrand watched as his plan unfolded.
You can only exploit others talents if your position is unshakable./t8.
MAKE YOUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS SEEM EFFORTLESS.Observance of the Law:/tSen no Rikyu was an important tea master and adviser on aesthetic and political mattersto the Emperor Hideyoshi.
All working situations require a kind of distance between people.
KEEP OTHERS IN SUSPENDED TERROR: CULTIVATE AN AIR OFUNPREDICTABILITY./t  Observance of the LawBobby Fischer beat chess champion Boris Spassky using this law of unpredictability.Spasskys method of playing chess was to base his strategy on the patterns he read inhis opponents moves.
Be alert to peoplesindividual psychologies and their basic emotional responses.
Michelangelo invited the mayor toclimb up a scaffolding, allowing him to look at the nose from a different perspective, whilethe artist chiseled a bit, pretending to correct the size of the nose.
Play sincere, but not necessarily besincere.
Most often the effective action is to stay back, keep calm, and let others befrustrated by the traps you set for them./t9.
He despised hosts who looked like they were trying to hard.Cha-no-yu, or the Japanese tea ceremony, is an art form, from the preparation to theserving; the whole process must look natural and easy.
Lola went on to have several husbands, even causingKing Ludwig of Bavaria to abdicate.
Nothing in the realm of power is set in stone.
Capone expected either $100,000, or nothing, what he did notexpect was an honest gesture of Lustig actually returning the $50,000.
DESPISE THE FREE LUNCH./tWisdom in a nutshell:  By paying your own way you stay free of gratitude.
NEVER APPEAR TOO PERFECT./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Never underestimate the power of envy.
Create a memorable character.
Occasionally reveal a weakness, defect,or anxiety, or find new friends.
Prosperity makesus lazy.
Napoleon ruled France again for a hundreddays, but the country was bankrupt and could not sustain Napoleons wars anylonger.
She started out as aconcubine of an emperor, but did not want to follow the traditional path: that of living therest of her life in a convent after the emperors death.
People are always impressed by the superficial appearance of things, the grand, andthe spectacular, what is larger than life./t38.
Reversal: Display the utmost disdain for those who envy you.
PLAY ON PEOPLES NEED TO BELIEVE TO CREATE A CULT-LIKEFOLLOWING./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Keep it simple; keep it vague.
He planted articles in newspapers andeven sent anonymous letters to keep his name in the limelight.Margaretha Zelle was able to use this law to make a name for herself as themysterious exotic dancer Mata Hari.
Mislead others by giving out false information.
If it is impossible to ignore, then secretly get rid of it.
A solid reputation increases your presence and exaggerates your strengthswithout your having to spend much energy.
Shakespeare was always producing plays forthe masses.
The mayor wasconvinced the nose looked much better.
No one feared the young boy and the boyars often ridiculedhim.
Wu took her place and her new husbandhanded over the reins of government to her, opting for a life of pleasure.
Gain poweras a mediator.
Peopleare creatures of habit and the sudden change will cause some to rebel.
Recognizing the prevailing winds does not necessarily mean running with them.36.
She had seduced the emperorsson in the royal urinal and befriended his wife.
Alter the playing field so the only options available are the ones you offer.
This increased thejealousy of the young countess, who was not sure of his interest in her.
The pope sought him out and begged the artist to stay.
PLAN ALL THE WAY TO THE END.Wisdom in a nutshell:/t  Take into account all possible obstacles and circumstances that may prevent youfrom achieving your goal, and plan how you will overcome them.
Use other people to give you the information you need.
DO NOT COMMIT TO ANYONE./t  Observance of the LawQueen Elizabeth I managed to avoid the trap of marriage and war, by dangling thepossibility of marriage to all who courted her.
She forged alliances with the countriesthese suitors came from, all for the benefit of England.
The less Duchamp talked about his work, the more itwas talked about in the art circles.
This was a much further place with nochance of escape, and was more to Talleyrands liking.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 6Wisdom in a nutshell:  For negotiations and meetings, it is wise to lure others into your territory, or aterritory of your choice.
He knew that if he were to isolate himself for onemoment, conspiracies would rise behind his back.
Make yourself less accessible; otherwise the aurayou have created around yourself will wear away./t17.
Observance of the LawGalileo was clever in observing this law by giving glory to his patrons.
Feed on uncontrollable emotions or motive  paranoia, lust, greed, vanity, or hatred.
Set up an us-versus-them dynamic.
Overt deceptiveness maysometimes cover your tracks.
Lustig kept the money untouched in a safetydeposit box.
If you are more intelligent than your master, act as if you are not.
USE THE SURRENDER TACTIC: TRANSFORM WEAKNESS INTOPOWER./t  Observance of the LawGerman writer Bertolt Brecht was called to appear before the US Congresss House ofUn-American Activities Committee during the heyday of the Communist investigations.Unlike his companions in the Hollywood 19, (other producers, directors and writers whoespoused communism in their scripts) he chose to be respectful to the committee.
He knewNapoleon loved the adoration of the masses, and this was the perfect bait to makethe former ruler play into the hands of his opponents.
He promoted hisshows of curiosities to audiences with all kinds of gimmicks.
Preserve the unspoken option of being able to leave anytime and reclaimyour freedom.
Master your emotions.
For others who want to feel superior and do not want to appear selfish, appeal totheir need to display their charity in the public eye./t14.
DISARM AND INFURIATE WITH THE MIRROR EFFECT./tWisdom in a nutshell:  The neutralizing effect: Do what your enemies do, follow their actions and theywill not see what you are up to.
PLAY A SUCKER TO CATCH A SUCKER  SEEM DUMBER THANYOUR MARK./t  Observance of the LawIn what was the biggest diamond scam of the century, prospectors Philip Arnold andJohn Slack fooled the biggest financiers of the time, Asbury Harpending, BaronRothschild, and William Ralston into investing their millions in a fake mine site.
Subtlyhe mocked them by offering vague but polite answers, used an interpreter to run circlesaround them when asked about the lines from his poems, and was summarily dismissed.He was free to leave America and continue writing as he pleased, while his friends inHollywood lost valuable working years as a result of being blacklisted.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Do not fight aggression with aggression.
PLAY TO PEOPLES FANTASIES./tObservance of the Law:In the 1700s, a mysterious stranger named George Psalmanazar came to fame with hisbooks and lectures on the language, culture and history of the island of Formosa (nowTaiwan).
Crush your rivals or else you will give them time to regroup andplot their revenge.
Make yourself appear larger than life.
The shyperson is actually dying for attention; a prude may be hiding a lascivious soul, etc.
It was Tsai who also convincedKhan to spare the inhabitants of Kaifeng, where Chinas finest craftsmen and engineershad fled.
Mimicry infuriates.
Possess a talent or creative skill that sets you apart from the crowd.
Never be the bearer of bad news.
His invention, the AC or alternating current system wasassociated not with his name but with that of George Westinghouse, who funded hisresearch.
Barnum was an expert at destroying his competitors reputation.
Boldness obliterates them.
Choose your battles carefully.
Even Marconi made use of a patent filed by Tesla in 1897.
The intensive form of power provides more freedomthan the extensive.Machiavelli said it is better to be feared than loved.
Use money as a way to give pleasure to others and win them over./t41.
Tesla wasthe real father of radio but received no money or credit for this invention.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Save time and energy by hiring others to do the work.
Disguise change by dressing it in tradition./t46.
Fearing a trap, Sima Yi called his soldiers toretreat.P.T.
They will notopenly disagree with you in order to avoid arguments.
One day theMarquis, unable to control his passion, broke from Ninons plan, and blurted out tothe countess that he loved her.
Fear can be controlled; love, never.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Be the only one who can do what you do.
Learn to demonstrate the correctness of your ideas indirectly.
Politely decline.
He built a palace in Versailles where all the nobilitycould keep apartments near to his.
Empress Wuruled until the age of eighty when she was forced to abdicate.
His soldiers opened the gates and hid.When Sima Yis troops advanced upon the unguarded city, Yi recognized hisopponent sitting alone upon the wall.
He was in constant touch with reality and what people wanted.
Arrange to be noticed.
Put your opponent off-guard by yielding, andin effect have more control over the situation.
Family policy ruled and their children intermarried, all of themfirst cousins.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Single-mindedness of purpose and total concentration on one goal will overwhelmthe enemy every time.
The morevague and exotic, the more captivating.
Never trust appearances./t20.
Save your energy and walk away.
If you are ambitious, it is wiser to seek out weak masters with whom you cancreate a relationship of dependency.
Force the resister into choosing to do what you want by appearing to advocate theopposite.
Many years later it would be discovered she was just a native ofHolland and had worked for the Germans as a spy.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Surround your name with the sensational and the scandalous.
It betrays a lack of control.
You may commit to one to prove you are capable of attachment, but be emotionallyuninvolved.
Learn to stand back and be patient.
PLAY THE PERFECT COURTIER./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Avoid ostentation.
Put on the mask appropriate to the group you are joining./t39.
CONTROL THE OPTIONS: GET OTHERS TO PLAY WITH THE CARDSYOU DEAL./tObservance of the Law:Seventeenth-century French courtesan Ninon de Lenclos needed to devise a way ofmaintaining her lifestyle while having the freedom no woman could achieve in her day.She gave her lovers and suitors three choices, a payeur would pay for her services, butshe would only sleep with him when she liked, a martyr would not have to pay, and bepart of her harem of men, and from the martyrs she would choose a favori, or one man towhom she would abandon herself to totally until she was tired of him.
Throughout her rule sheeliminated son after son, anyone who would challenge her throne.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Show no mercy.
Lions circle the hesitant prey.
They had come to hate the cruelty of the Shuiskysover the years, and the time was at hand to strike boldly and swiftly.Wisdom in a nutshell:  The bolder the lie, the better.
Since all the business had been legal, and experts hadinspected the mines, there was no way to go after the two men.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Intelligence is an important part of peoples vanity.
He waited until he had wonover the palace guards to his side.
Because of her ambition to be a dancer she accidentally ran into AlexandreDujarier, then the owner of Frances most popular newspaper and a drama critic himself.Although still legally married to an Englishman with whom she eloped at 19, Lola kept herstatus secret from all her husbands.
After this admission, the countess no longer foundhim interesting and avoided him.
Never take your position for granted.
Create rituals.
Banish enemies or plot for the best time to render them harmless.
Modesty is generally preferable.
Once someone suspects you are manipulating him, it will be harder to controlhim.
She returned to the harem, became pregnant, and murdered herown baby, knowing the prime suspect would be the jealous wife of the new emperor.
This one swift and bold act secured Ivans power for decades tocome.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 13Ivan initially lay low, showing neither ambition nor discontent.
Move swiftly and surely.
Borrow the forms of organized religion to structure the group.
KEEP YOUR HANDS CLEAN./tObservance of the Law:Cleopatra was always able to get people to do her bidding without them realizing she wasmanipulating them.
Soderini visited the studio one day and commented that the nose of the statue(that of David with a sling in his hand) was too big.
The Shadow effect: Shadow your opponents every move, gather information,and gain insight to their routines and habits without them seeing you.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of Power   Page 17The Mirror effect: Show you understand by reflecting their innermost feelings.The Moral effect: Teach others a lesson by giving them a taste of their ownmedicine.The Hallucinatory effect: offer a perfect copy of an object, place or person andsee how people take the bait./t45.
The tendency to doubt and reason is broken down when we join a group./t28.
Envy is often a problem for people who have great natural talent.
Do not negotiate if you opponent will morelikely take the opportunity to destroy you.
In the end, after the legalpay-off was made to the two men, the investors realized the mine had been salted withuncut gems by Arnold and Slack.
Do not become complacent once you reach success and security.
The opponent will be more likely to make mistakes because of theneed to hurry, or in the case of business, will be forced to buy whatever you offerbecause the time to make a decision is limited.
Tsais reasoning was Khan could use these people for his own benefit.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 8Most people are very pragmatic, and when negotiating, do not bring up the need forgratitude for what you have done for others in the past.
Forced Time is upsetting the timing of others and setting theirdeadlines for them.
Never associate with those who share your defects./t11.
The Trojan Horse was designed to hold soldiers that would attack the city of Troyand recapture Helen who had been taken away from the Greeks by Paris.Wisdom in a nutshell:  The essence of deception is distraction.
Spassky resigned a few months later and never recovered from his defeat.Wisdom in a nutshell:  A person of power instills fear by deliberately unsettling those around him to keepthe initiative on his side.
On the third game he made moves that were souncharacteristic and bold Spassky was thrown off balance.
DO NOT GO PAST THE MARK YOU AIMED FOR; IN VICTORY, LEARNWHEN TO STOP./tWisdom in a nutshell:  The powerful know that the essence of strategy is controlling what comes next.
Whether it is in the boardroom, at a power lunch, or a cocktail party theselaws will make you master of the game and give you the edge over your rivals./t1.
The twomen played up their small town, scruffy image; convincing the sophisticated tycoons thatthey would easily be bought out for their discovery of the mines.
WIN THROUGH YOUR ACTIONS, NEVER THROUGH ARGUMENT./t  Observance of the LawMichelangelo knew how to satisfy a patron while getting his way at the same time.
Michelangelo succeeded in making Soderinithink his comment had helped improve the work.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Demonstrate, do not explicate.
You cannot allow yourself to feel obligated to anyone.
Find the childhood need that went unfulfilled, supply it, and your victim will be unableto resist you.
Create new words for vague concepts.
INFECTION: AVOID THE UNHAPPY AND THE UNLUCKY./t  Transgression of the LawIn the 1840s Marie Gilbert, better known as Lola Montez, came to Paris to become adancer and performer.
Act like nothing canaffect you and you have all the time in the world to respond.Set your price high and do not waver.Deal with the highest person in the building.A gift is an equalizer.
The people bowed to him, and soldierschanged sides to join him.
Accidental grace and beautywere Rikyus specialty.
The manwho published her autobiography went bankrupt.Wisdom in a nutshell:  In the game of power, the people you associate with are critical.
Generosity is a sign of power.
Had he gone to the king his sincerity wouldhave been doubted.
In every group power is concentrated in the hands of one or two people.
Liangs troops were far outnumbered by Sima Yis, yethe devised a clever last resort plan.
She wouldslowly discard her veils and sarongs for the most prominent people in Paris whocame to see her.
CONCENTRATE YOUR FORCES./t  Observance of the LawThe Rothschild banking family concentrated its wealth within a very tight-knit structure.Five brothers each controlled a part of the empire from Paris, Frankfurt, Vienna, Naples,to London.
Leave your enemies no options.
If you have a history of deceit behind you, thenplay the rogue, be consistent and this will be interpreted as you simply beingyourself.
Never let favors you receive go to your head.
He was supposed to assume an air of nonchalance.
Hiring friends will limit your power.
Thesespies would provide him valuable information as the tastes of his mark.
He was so involved in so many areas of the political structure that toremove him would lead to chaos.
Promise a pot of gold and instant gratification, rather than a gradual improvementthrough hard work.
Ask them to make sacrifices and give alms.
By keeping her independenceabove all, Elizabeth protected her power and made herself an object of worship.Wisdom in a nutshell:  By refusing to commit, but allowing yourself to be courted, you become powerfulbecause you are ungraspable.
He acceptedsmall sums as buy-outs for his work, when in reality his creations could have beenworth millions.
Blend in and people will be less suspicious./t4.
Surrender is a way of mocking your enemies.
Inthe morning, he removed the cushions revealing the pattern of the stepping-stones like aperfect mold within the snow.
She had the equality to men no married woman of the time couldpossess.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 14Wisdom in a nutshell:  Make people your puppets and give them options to let them feel they have control.Force them to choose between the lesser of two evils, both of which serve yourpurpose.
Because of this Wu was able to get a royaledict out of the convent.
Many deputies changed their votes.
Involving your victim in your scheme with the threat of their exposure later will keepthem tied to you.
Power depends on social interaction and circulation.
Emphasize the visual and sensual over the intellectual.
Alter your style and language according to the person you are dealing with.
You do not beg but ask for help in a dignified way./t35.
Thinking this move would make him anindispensable asset to the king, Fouquet had actually offended his master who did notlike the fact people were more charmed by his finance minister than by him.
Never affect friendliness and intimacy with your master.
Most powerful people spend freely and are not misers.
Use the past and profit by others experience.
Observe quarreling parties and stay neutral but supportive to both sides.
DISDAIN THINGS YOU CANNOT HAVE: IGNORING THEM IS THEBEST REVENGE.Wisdom in a nutshell:  The more attention you pay an enemy, the stronger you make him.
Khan offered to share the Silk Route with Muhammad, sendingambassadors to forge a deal.
He would arrange accidental meetings in elevators, leading his prey of wealthy patrons right into his trap.When clients came to visit his galleries, they found themselves surrounded by works theywould most likely buy.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Gather information at social events when peoples guards are down.
Your helpers will be forgotten and you will be remembered.
ENTER ACTION WITH BOLDNESS./tIvan the Terrible waited five years before executing his first major bold move.
Eventually his forces seized the capital of the Shahs empire, Samarkand.Muhammad fled, and the Silk Route fell into the hands of Genghis Khan.Learn to distinguish from opponent, sucker, and victim.
Once the words are out you cannot take them back.
Use smoke screens (a poker face) to disguise your actions.
CONCEAL YOUR INTENTIONS./t  Transgression of the Law.The Marquis de Sevigne was young and inexperienced in the art of love.
The massesloved him, but his rivals feared him.Aurore Dupin Dudevant left her husband and family in the provinces to become a writer inParis, something unheard of and almost impossible for a woman to do in 1831.
Only the terminally subordinate act in a predictable manner./t18.
Envy is disguised sometimes as excessive praise, or slander and criticism.
Skill and competence are more important than friendly feelings.
Make your enemies angry but staycalm yourself.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of Power   Page 16Angry people usually end up looking ridiculous.Nothing in the game of power is personal.An occasional outburst may be powerful, but use anger too often and it loses itspower./t40.
The friends you made while being courted will help you jump ship./t21.
Do not be the court cynic.
Disguise your source of income.
When he conquered China,instead of slaughtering all the citizens, his adviser Yelu Chu-Tsai persuaded him to reapthe benefits of their new territory by taxing its people.
Anticipate events and work with the spirit of the times.
When he andthe pope quarreled over the building of the popes marble tomb, Michelangelo left Romein disgust.
Keeping silent makes people reveal more about themselves.
Gravitate towards prosperous, cheerful, and gregarious people.
She had many husbands, and caused the ruin of many a powerfulman.
He thencommissioned an emblem for them, with each moon representing one of the sons whorevolved around the patriarch.
SO MUCH DEPENDS ON REPUTATION  GUARD IT WITH YOURLIFE./t  Observance of the LawDuring Chinas War of the Three Kingdoms (A.D.207-265), General Liang was able tofool his rival Sima Yi simply by letting his track record for being an undefeated leaderin battle do the work for him.
Boldness strikes fear; Fear creates authority.
Make it seem like you want to seek hisexpertise and advice./t2.
Give before you take.
He publicly stated his praises for the Austrians and talked aboutthe madness of war.
Separate him from thegroup.
You can just as easily choose toconsider the matter trivial and unworthy of your interest.
The five difficult and sometimesdangerous marks are: the arrogant and proud, the hopelessly insecure, the suspicious,the serpent with a long memory, and the plain, unassuming, unintelligent man.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Measure up your opponent, but never rely on instinct.
Never do the dirty work yourself./t27.
That is the powerful move.
Playing nave lets you see opportunities to deceive others.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 11/t22.
Isolation is deadly for the creative arts.
His name wasGenghis Khan.
When the guards were suddenly ordered to seize Prince Andrei and execute him, noone saw it coming.
Writers like Tennessee Williams and Fyodor Dostoyevsky preferred thestruggle to security; the way poverty or emotional difficulties pushed them to creategood work./t42.
All your hard work must come off as effortless.
Instead of hidingyour perfection, make it obvious.
STRIKE THE SHEPHERD AND THE SHEEP WILL SCATTER./tWisdom in a nutshell:  Within any group, trouble can be traced to a single source, the unhappy,chronically unsatisfied one who stirs up dissension and infects the group.Recognize troublemakers by their complaining nature.
Hesitation creates gaps.
Shedressed in mens breeches, smoked cigars, and expressed herself in conversation like aman.
DO NOT BUILD FORTRESSES TO PROTECT YOURSELF ISOLATION IS DANGEROUS./t  Observance of the LawKing Louis XIV recognized the importance of always keeping his eyes and ears oneveryone and everything around him.
WHEN ASKING FOR HELP, APPEAL TO PEOPLES SELF-INTEREST,NEVER TO THEIR MERCY OR GRATITUDE./t  Observance of the LawGenghis Khan was known for his greed and self-interest.
Most Prussians wanted to go to war at that moment and mistakenly believedtheir army to be superior to the Austrians.
Do some research on concretefacts about that persons character and history.
Make yourself tooavailable and your presence will be taken for granted.
Prepare alternatives and be open to adapt new routes to your goal./t30.
Never joke about appearances or taste.
Here he was given information thatFrance would embrace him again if he escaped.
People held him in awe, untilhe opened his mouth.
Absorbing and entertaining, this book lends business people a wealth ofideas on the subtle art of playing the power game, exercising clever cunning, and understandinghuman weaknesses.
Publicly declare your false intentions to give misleading signals.
Any form of publicity wouldbenefit his entertainment business, no matter if it were bad publicity.
There was not very much privacy for the king and he preferred this life to one ofisolation.Wisdom in a nutshell:  A fortress may be impregnable, but everyone knows you are there and it may easilyturn into a prison.
She made him follow a planover a number of weeks, where the Marquis would be appearing in public alwayssurrounded by beautiful women, in the very places the countess would be expectedto see him.
Fit the spirit of the times.
GET OTHERS TO DO THE WORK FOR YOU, BUT ALWAYS TAKE THECREDIT./t  Transgression and Observance of the LawNicola Tesla was a Serbian scientist who never learned how this law was usedagainst him time and again.
Peoples weaknesses are the opposite of the qualities they reveal to you.
ALWAYS SAY LESS THAN NECESSARY./twww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 4  Transgression of the Law.Coriolanus was a great military hero of ancient Rome.
Exude confidence and thefeeling you were destined for greatness.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of Power     Page 15Do not confuse regal bearing with arrogance.Dignity is the mask you assume under difficult circumstances.
Be a source of pleasure./t25.
Surrender disguises your real motives and allows time to plan your next move./t23.
Discreet flattery is much more powerful.
This was just one of Rikyus clever aesthetic tricks whichimpressed the Emperor, never calling attention to the work gone into it, but implying apolite gesture in itself.Wisdom in a nutshell:  What imitates nature by appearing effortless and natural approximates naturespower.
It is better to be attacked and slandered than ignored.
Do not limit yourself to the role society assigns toyou./t26.
See things their way and offer suggestions that will advance their cause.
Use the horns of a dilemma: whichever way they choose, there is no escape./t32.
There is no better time to stop and walk away than after a victory./t48.
An infector can be recognized by the misfortune they draw on themselves, theirturbulent past, a long line of broken relationships, unstable careers, the veryintensity of their emotions, and the force of their character.
Audacity separates you from the herd./t29.
It is the people in your own circle of peers who willbe the first to envy your success.
The payeurs wereable to finance her needs while she enjoyed complete freedom, independence, andvariety from her lovers.
They established themselves as a powerful force in business and politics,keeping the secrets of the family business by exchanging internal communications only incode or Frankfurt Yiddish.
He spoke his mind, hardly able to control his arrogance andboastfulness.
Sometimes threats just go away bythemselves./t37.
A noble gesture can be a smoke screen to hide your true intentions.
Watch them react and base yournext action on what you discover./t15.
USE ABSENCE TO INCREASE RESPECT AND HONOR./tObservance of the Lawwww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 9This law is most appreciated in matters of seduction and love.
This feminine, formless style of ruling as practiced byElizabeth of England and Catherine of Russia, allows flexibility and makes subjects feelless coerced.
Sometimes enemies will destroy themselves.
Hewould place the household employees of his potential clients on his own payroll.
Observance of the LawMasters of enigma Andy Warhol and Marcel Duchamp knew the power of saying lessand keeping people guessing.
False sincerity is one powerful tool that will send your rivals on a wild goosechase.
BE ROYAL IN YOUR OWN FASHION: ACT LIKE A KING TO BETREATED LIKE ONE./tWisdom in a nutshell:  How you carry yourself reflects what you think of yourself.
Subliminally reassure youropponent of his superiority.
Be frugal with flattery.
He spared those who conspired against him, and wasable to win over enemies with his generosity.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Do not rely on friends.
On the night before the Emperor was to visit him for a teaceremony, he artfully laid cushions in the snow on each stepping-stone to his house.
Your dishonesty becomes an act of honesty./t13.
Marc Antony was seduced by her,and had her younger sister Arsinoe executed, ridding Cleopatra of any threats to herplace as Queen.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Conceal your mistakes.
In the Middle Ages, ladies playedthe game of presence and absence by sending their knights off on long arduous quests.Sir Guillaume de Balaun wanted to taste the joy of love after reconciliation, and twice heintentionally made himself scarce, withdrawing his affections from Madame Guillelma deJaviac.
Humannature shows people will orbit around a single strong personality./t43.
After yearsof persecution by the Shuisky family, the poisoning of his mother Helena, and thebanishment of his only friend Vorontsov, the thirteen year-old Ivan invited his rival PrinceAndrei Shuisky into his room.
When searching for suckers, always look for the unhappy, insecure and dissatisfied./t34.
Never criticize those above you directly.
When you see several steps ahead, you will no longer need to improvise along theway, and risk deviating from your plan.
USE SELECTIVE HONESTY AND GENEROSITY TO DISARM YOURVICTIM./t  Observance of the LawCount Victor Lustig promised Al Capone into giving him $50,000 on the terms that hewould double this investment in sixty days.
Dujarier was shot dead defending her honor at aduel against another drama critic.
After the sixty days were up, he apologized to Capone saying he had failedto double the money.
Remember: You choose to let things bother you.
Borrow from history.
What is offered for free normallyhas a hidden obligation.
Create an air of mystery.
After his death, it was revealed that he was in fact a Frenchman with a richimagination who played on the British need for the exotic and strange.
After his ambassadors were beheaded, Genghis Khandeclared war.
Arguing will only offend your superior.
Morph andadapt but keep your long-term strategy in mind at all times.www.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com
Observance of the LawEmperor Sung of China in 959 A.D. was able to turn all his enemies into loyal friends.He persuaded his generals to retire to a life of nobility and give up their dreams ofwww.bizsum.com 2001, 2002 Copyright BusinessSummaries.com The 48 Laws Of PowerPage 3grabbing his throne one day.
Thoughts of reconciliation will open you up to attack./t16.
Hewas a master at poking mockery at the tactics of his rivals.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Sow doubt and spread rumors about your rival.
From Elba he was able to escapeand march back into Paris with a small army.
She even carried on affairs with the most famous artists of Europe - Musset, Liszt,and Chopin - living with freedom and independence unlike any other female writer beforeher.Wisdom in a nutshell:  Control your appearances and emotions.
MASTER THE ART OF TIMING./tTime as a human-made conceptThere are three kinds of time we deal with when building power: the Long Time is theyears-long period of waiting for the right opportunity while creating a strong foundation orbase to work from.
MAKE OTHER PEOPLE COME TO YOU  USE BAIT IF NECESSARY./t  Observance of the LawNapoleons former foreign minister Talleyrand was master of this law.
